Inventorying a Windows 10 System.
Why would you want to inventory a Windows 10 System?
Well in business it's called asset management,
and it's a key part of IT service management.
When you're working with your customers and clients,
maybe you have a new customer and you don't know exactly what
you're dealing with with their computer.
There are a few spots to go in Windows 10 to get a
really nice idea of what's going on.
First from the software perspective, which Windows 10 edition are they running,
which version specifically?
How much memory do they have?
What kind of CPU and motherboard does the system have?
How much storage and so forth?
We'll begin our trolley ride in the System Control Panel, as you see here.
Specifically you'll notice that we can view the System architecture,
the amount of installed memory, the host name,
whether the computer is part of a work group or a domain,
but we also see up at the top of this dialog the Windows edition.
So here in this screenshot, this is a Windows 10 Enterprise edition computer.
Another place to go is the About Windows dialog.
You know, most traditional desktop applications in the Help menu,
there's an About option where you can check program version
from a command prompt or the run box, or a PowerShell prompt,
you can type winver, w-i-n-v-e-r, to see the About Windows screen,
which gives you the version.
And as you can see here, I'm running the latest creator's update,
the 1709 version, which is September 2017,
and it also gives me my specific OS Build number.
That can be important for instance,
if you open up a support ticket with Microsoft,
they'll want to know right down to the build number what you're running.
There's also license information shown in this dialog.
The Microsoft System Information tool,
it's been in Windows since pretty much the beginning,
probably Windows 95.
Msinfo32 is the traditional command executable way to start this tool.
I'm not going to say anything more about it really now because
we're going to do a demo on it in just a moment.
There's lots of third-party utilities that can also help you inventory a system.
This is a piece of freeware I found called ProduKey.
Now note that when I reference third-party utilities,
and you'll see a few more of them in the upcoming demo,
I don't have any arrangement with those vendors.
I'm recommending them to you because they're tools that
I actually use in my career myself.
Anyway,
ProduKey solves the problem of retrieving the product key
associated with Microsoft software.
So in this example,
you can see on my Windows 10 Enterprise machine I can retrieve the key,
of course I've blurred it out for security reasons.
I have Office 2013 and actually 2016 installed,
but both of those show up as 2013 for some inscrutable reason,
and I also have an instance of the SQL Server Database Engine on my machine.
It's surprisingly non-intuitive to find the product key on a system, so a utility like ProduKey can really come in handy.